Load Balancer Techniques

There are numerous techniques and algorithms that can be used to intelligently load balance client access requests across server pools.
The technique chosen will depend on the type of service or application being served and the status of the network and servers at the time of the request. 
The methods outlined below will be used in combination to determine the best server to service new requests. 
The current level of requests to the load balancers often determines which method is used. 
When the load is low then one of the simple load balancing methods will suffice. 
In times of high load, the more complex methods are used to ensure an even distribution of requests.

Round Robin:-
A simple method of load balancing servers. Multiple identical servers are configured to provide the same services.
All are configured to use the same Internet domain name, but each has a unique IP address.
A DNS server has a list of all the unique IP addresses that are associated with the Internet domain name.
When requests for the IP Address associated with the Internet domain name are received, the addresses are returned in a rotating sequential manner.

Weighted Round Robin:-
Weighted Round Robin builds on the simple Round Robin load balancing method.
In the weighted version, each server in the pool is given a static numerical weighting.
Servers with higher ratings get more requests sent to them.

Least Connection:-
Neither Round Robin or Weighted Round Robin take the current server load into consideration when distributing requests.
The Least Connection method does take the current server load into consideration.
The current request goes to the server that is servicing the least number of active sessions at the current time.

Weighted Least Connection:-
Builds on the Least Connection method.
Like in the Weighted Round Robin method each server is given a numerical value.
The load balancer uses this when allocating requests to servers.
If two servers have the same number of active connections, then the server with the higher weighting will be allocated the new request.

Agent-Based Adaptive Load Balancing:-
Each server in the pool has an agent that reports on its current load to the load balancer.
This real-time information is used when deciding which server is best placed to handle a request.
This is used in conjunction with other techniques such as Weighted Round Robin and Weighted Least Connection.

Chained Failover (Fixed Weighted):-
In this method, a predetermined order of servers is configured in a chain. All requests are sent to the first server in the chain.
If it can’t accept any more requests the next server in the chain is sent all requests, then the third server. And so on.

Weighted Response Time:-
This method uses the response information from a server health check to determine the server that is responding fastest at a particular time.
The next server access request is then sent to that server.
This ensures that any servers that are under heavy load, and which will respond more slowly, are not sent new requests.
This allows the load to even out on the available server pool over time.

Source IP Hash(Sticky Session):-
This algorithm combines source and destination IP addresses of the client and server to generate a unique hash key.
The key is used to allocate the client to a particular server.
As the key can be regenerated if the session is broken, the client request is directed to the same server it was using previously.
This is useful if it’s important that a client should connect to a session that is still active after a disconnection.
For example, to retain items in a shopping cart between sessions.

Layer 7 Content Switching(URL Rewriting):-
This uses information from the application layer to augment lower level network switching operations.
Application layer information about target services the data in the packets is intended for, can be used by load balancers to route the packets
in real time to the server best suited to process them.

Global Server Load Balancing (GSLB):-
GSLB load balances DNS requests, not traffic.
It uses algorithms such as round robin, weighted round robin, fixed weighting, real server load, location-based, proximity and all available.
It offers High Availability through multiple data centers.
If a primary site is down, traffic is diverted to a disaster recovery site.
Clients connect to their fastest performing, geographically closest data center.
Application health checking ensures unavailable services or data centers are not visible to clients.

AD Group based traffic steering:-
When users initiate client traffic it can be steered to individual Real Servers in a Virtual Service (VS) based on Active Directory (AD) group membership.
For example, a VS has four Real Servers, with two Real Servers configured to have a primary association with AD Group 1 and two Real Servers configured
to have a primary association with AD Group 2.
A user attempts to access the VS, their group membership is verified, and their request steered to the appropriate Real Servers.
If Real Servers selected based on group membership are unavailable, the assigned scheduling method for the VS is used.

Software Defined Networking (SDN) Adaptive
SDN Adaptive combines knowledge of upper networking layers, with information about the state of the network at lower layers.
Information about data from Layers 4 & 7 of the network, and information about the network from layers 2 & 3 is combined when deciding how to allocate requests.
This allows information about the status of the servers, the status of the applications running on them, the health of the network infrastructure,
 and the level of congestion on the network to all play a part in the load balancing decision making.