Virtual Private Cloud 
	1) Logically isolated network in the AWS cloud
	2) Control of n/w architecture
	3) Enhanced security with VPC, with Security groups can restrict access to resources like EC2 ,etc. 
	   It also has a NACL where we can configure the network coming in and going out.
	4) Internetwork with other organisations
	5) Elastic Ip address(aka public IPs)
	6) Enable Hybrid cloud
	7) Single dedicated hardware nw

	VPC cost is 0 but VPN costs
	The following are the key concepts for VPCs:
		• Virtual private cloud (VPC) — A virtual network dedicated to your AWS account.
		• Subnet — A range of IP addresses in your VPC.
		• Route table — A set of rules, called routes, that are used to determine where network traﬃc is
			directed.
		• Internet gateway — A gateway that you attach to your VPC to enable communication between
			resources in your VPC and the internet.
		• VPC endpoint — Enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC
			endpoint services powered by PrivateLink without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN
			connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC do not require public IP
			addresses to communicate with resources in the service. Traﬃc between your VPC and the other
			service does not leave the Amazon network.

	There's no additional charge for using Amazon VPC. You pay the standard rates for the instances and	other Amazon EC2 features that you use.
	There are charges for using a Site-to-Site VPN connection,PrivateLink, Traﬃc Mirroring, and a NAT gateway.
	There will be data transfer charge between your NAT Gateway and EC2 instance if they are in the different availability zone.
VPC Elements:-

		1) Subnet (private Subnet, public subnet and VPN subnet)
		2)  Route Tables
		3) Internet gateways
		4) Elastic IPs
		5) Endpoints(eg direct traffic to S3 directly)
		6) NAT Gateway 
		7) Peering connection
		8) Network ACL
		9) Security Groups
		10) VPN

VPC Characteristics:-
		1) AWS reserves 5 ip address per subnet(first 4 and last 1)
		2) Subnets do not span AZs
		3) Single region , multi AZ
		4) CIDR 16-28
		5) Select IP prefix( 192.168 or 10.0 or 172.0...)
When you create a VPC, you must specify a range of IPv4 addresses for the VPC in the form of a Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block;
 for example, 10.0.0.0/16. This is the primary CIDR block for your VPC.
 For more information about CIDR notation, see RFC 4632.
 
Understanding NAT Instances ,Gateways and VPC End Points

VPC Peering
 Various VPC across various region can peer(connection) with each other and this mechanism is provided by AWS.
 There is no transitive peering.
 50 VPC peer are provided by default per VPC and can be raised to 125 VPC.
 DNS is supported in VPC.
 Use route tables to configure routing among VPC.
 Update Inbound and Outbound rules for your VPC security groups to reference security groups in the peered VPC.
 
VPC Access

AWS Direct Connect
	Predictable Bandwidth
	Predictable Performance/consistent network experience
	1Gbps or 10Gbps
	For less than 1Gbps connection through AWS partner network(APN)
	Support for VLAN Trunking
	Direct Connect can be partitioned into multiple virtual interfaces.
 


